# reversehourglass
All codes related to the article "The angiosperm seed life cycle follows a developmental reverse hourglass" are submitted here. 

1. The "TAI_calculation.R" script contains codes to reproduce the main TAI patterna and phylostrata contribution for Arabidopsis, B. napus, tomato, and maize. The script also checks for the effect of different data normalization methods on the TAI pattern seen in the Arabidopsis seed life cycle.

2. To validate that the reverse hourglass pattern observed during seed maturation is not an artifact of RNA-seq data merging from different studies we performed phylostranscriptomics on the soybean (Glycine max) seed development RNA-seq data published by Chen et al., 2024 (https://www.maxapress.com/article/id/675137defa6c5848635e86a1). The covered all three stages - emrbyogenesis, maturation, and germination in the same study. The "Validation_Glycine_max" directory contains the script "gmax_TAI.Rmd" with the codes used to produce the TAI pattern and phylostrata contribution of Glycine max seed life cycle. The script also checks for data normalization effects and the Cullen-Frey plot to check if statistical assumptions are met. The script goes on to test the effect of high variance genes on the reverse hourglass pattern and that removal of 470 such high variance genes abolishes the reverse hourglass pattern. This characteristic of the seed reverse hourglass pattern i.e. small number of the genes (0.89% in G. max) defining the reverse hourglass pattern in seeds makes the pattern sensitive to log-like transformations that compress the expression of the genes underlying the reverse hourglass pattern.
3. The "Data check Lotharukpong etal. 2024" directory contains a script that performs data checks on the RNA-seq data used in the Lotharukpong etal. 2024 study (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-024-08059-8). The data checks for the Cullen-Frey plot using the FlatLineTest and ReductiveHourglassTest, and also checks the stability of the ReductiveHourglassTest test in Ficus distichus and F. serratus after different data transformations. Same parameters were used as the original study except that we increased the number of permuations to 20000.
